# Data Driven Documents aka D3.js
I first came across D3.js while looking at job postings and I thought it was pretty interesting.  D3 is a data visualization library, or rather a tool to turn data into exciting visuals. I wanted to work with D3 because I am interested in extracting the useful bits out of tons of data and gain meaning from it.  I quickly found there are not really any easy solutions right out of the box, rather an immense amount of JS methods to help you achieve what you want to do.  It's kind of like a jQuery for data manipulation.  However like jQuery, there are several solutions that use D3 as a base to create things like charts and graphs that are easier to use.

I started off by reading a few beginner tutorials and picked it up pretty easily.  However, I hit my first roadblock very early as I couldn't seem to get anything to show.  I was banging my head against this for a while until I realized it was a very novice mistake on where I was listing my script source tags in the HTML.  D3 uses targeting or selecting, for example targeting the body of the html, and my scripts were running before the body was even loaded. I was somewhat demoralized after banging my head against that for a while, but then I Was able to construct two different bar graphs.  One using divs and the other svg and rectangles.

Although it was fairly easy to construct the bar graphs, I somehow feel I could do this just as easily in something like Angular or jQuery.  This tool/library is quite advanced and I think you need a clear vision of what you are trying to build and the accompanying data.  I am sure it makes a lot of things easier when you have this in your head, vs. just making bar graphs.  All in all, I would like more time playing with it and bringing more advanced concepts into it.  I think my biggest hurdle was dealing with my mental code block and also getting quite agitated at the beginning.  I also thought it would be really cool to setup some sort of interactive graphs using Angular, which I started to do but am struggling conceptualizing it.

To view my boring graphs, you can just clone this repo and open up the index.html file.  
